.\" partkeepr-ng.conf(5) - partkeepr-ng environment configuration
.\" Copyright 2026 Don Bishop <dbishop@spectraq.com>
.\" Distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3
.TH PARTKEEPR-NG.CONF 5 "2026-05-19" "partkeepr-ng" "File Formats Manual"
.SH NAME
partkeepr-ng.conf, /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng \- environment configuration for the partkeepr-ng daemon
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
is a POSIX shell fragment sourced by
.I /etc/init.d/partkeepr-ng
before the daemon is started. Variables marked
.B export
become environment variables for
.BR partkeepr-ng (8).
.PP
This file is the live configuration. It is CONFIG_PROTECT'd by Portage,
so edits survive
.BR emerge (1)
upgrades; new versions of the template at install time are offered for
merge via
.BR dispatch-conf (1).
.PP
A reference of every supported variable, in
.BR dotenv (5)-style
format (bare VAR=value, no
.B export
keyword), ships at
.IR /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/api.env.example .
The two files are NOT interchangeable \(em the shell-syntax conf.d
file and the dotenv reference have different parsers.
.SH FILE FORMAT
Lines are either:
.IP \(bu 2
Comments, beginning with
.BR # .
.IP \(bu 2
Empty.
.IP \(bu 2
.B export VAR="value"
\(em a shell variable assignment that the daemon will see via
.BR std::env (Rust standard library)
or
.BR getenv (POSIX).
.PP
Double-quote values to avoid surprises with special characters. URL
passwords and other strings that may contain spaces or shell
metacharacters MUST be quoted.
.SH REQUIRED VARIABLES
The daemon refuses to start without these.
.TP
.B DATABASE_URL
MariaDB connection URL in
.BR sqlx (3rs)
format. Schema:
.IR mysql://USER:PASSWORD@HOST/DATABASE .
Example:
.IR mysql://partkeepr:hunter2@localhost/partkeepr .
.IP
If the password contains
.BR @ ,
.BR : ,
.BR / ,
.BR # ,
.BR % ,
or whitespace, percent-encode those characters in the URL form (the
SQL identifier itself does not need encoding). The simplest path is
to choose a password that uses only letters, digits, and
.BR -_~.+!*() .
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_SESSION_SECRET
HMAC signer key for the session cookie. At least 16 characters.
Generate with:
.IP
.nf
.RS
openssl rand -base64 48
.RE
.fi
.IP
Rotating this value invalidates every active session.
.SH PRODUCTION DEPLOYMENT
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_SECURE_COOKIES
Boolean (
.IR true / 1 / yes / on
all enable;
.IR false /
unset disable). When enabled, the daemon issues session cookies with
the
.B Secure
attribute. Required behind an https reverse proxy \(em otherwise the
browser drops the cookie on subsequent requests and login appears to
silently fail. Leave unset only for local-http dev. Default:
.BR false .
.SH STORAGE PATHS
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_STORAGE_DIR
Attachment storage root. Daemon writes uploaded attachments here.
Must be writable as user
.IR partkeepr .
Default:
.IR /var/lib/partkeepr-ng/files .
.IP
For larger installs, override to a dedicated filesystem (ZFS dataset,
btrfs subvolume, separate LVM, etc.) and create the target directory
as
.IR partkeepr:partkeepr ,
mode 0750. The parent directory must already exist; the OpenRC
initscript honors the override but does not create the parent.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_FRONTEND_DIR
Path to the Webix static frontend tree. The daemon's
.BR tower-http (3rs)::ServeDir
fallback service loads from here for every non-API request. Default
for a packaged install:
.IR /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/frontend .
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_JLCPARTS_DB_PATH
Optional. Full path to the local jlcparts SQLite mirror (~27 GB
uncompressed) used by the
.B Cross-ref LCSC
feature. When unset or the file is absent, the cross-ref button is
hidden in the UI. Build the file once with
.IR /usr/libexec/partkeepr-ng/jlcparts-sync.sh ;
the weekly cron entry in
.I /etc/cron.d/partkeepr-ng
refreshes it (commented out by default).
.SH OPTIONAL FEATURES
.TP
.B BIND_ADDR
Address the daemon listens on. Default:
.IR 127.0.0.1:8080 .
Keep loopback-only when fronted by apache or nginx; never expose
8080 publicly.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_CLAMD
clamd TCP socket
.RI ( "tcp://127.0.0.1:3310" ).
When set, uploaded attachments are scanned by ClamAV in-flight. When
unset, the daemon logs a WARN at startup and uploads are not
scanned.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_PTOUCH_BIN
Path to
.BR ptouch-print (1)
for Brother P-touch USB label printers (e.g.
.IR /usr/bin/ptouch-print ).
The
.B Print to D410
UI button is hidden when this is unset. Note that
.B ptouch-print
opens the printer over libusb \(em the printer must be physically
attached to the host running this daemon. See
.BR ptouch-print (1).
.SH DISTRIBUTOR API CREDENTIALS
Each set of credentials enables one distributor integration. Without
the credentials, the corresponding feature is hidden in the UI.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_MOUSER_SEARCH_KEY
Mouser Search API key for the
.B Add via Mouser
lookup workflow.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_MOUSER_ORDER_KEY
Mouser Order History API key for the
.B Receive Mouser Order
workflow. NOTE: This is a separate key from the Search key (Mouser
issues one key per "product family"). Mismatching the two is a
common deployment mistake.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CLIENT_ID
.TQ
.B PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET
OAuth2 client_credentials pair for the Digi-Key Product Information
V4 API (search) and Order Status V4 API (receive). Both required to
enable any Digi-Key feature.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CUSTOMER_ID
Numeric customer ID printed on any Digi-Key invoice. Required only
for the Order Status flow; Digi-Key's V4 endpoint returns
.B "Account ID must not be 0"
without it. Search and import work without it.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_BASE_URL
Optional. Default
.IR https://api.digikey.com .
Override to
.I https://sandbox-api.digikey.com
for development against the Digi-Key sandbox.
.TP
.B PARTKEEPR_TRUSTEDPARTS_API_KEY
trustedparts.com aggregator key for the
.B Compare distributors
modal. Note: the trustedparts TOS forbids storing API data on disk
for longer than 7 days; the daemon caches in-memory only.
.SH LOGGING
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
tracing-subscriber filter directive. Default:
.IR info,partkeepr_api=info,tower_http=info .
Bump to
.B debug
or
.B trace
for troubleshooting, then return to
.B info
once the issue is found.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B Minimal config for a fresh production install:
.PP
.nf
.RS
export DATABASE_URL="mysql://partkeepr:hunter2@localhost/partkeepr"
export PARTKEEPR_SESSION_SECRET="..."  # openssl rand -base64 48
export PARTKEEPR_SECURE_COOKIES=true   # behind https proxy
export BIND_ADDR="127.0.0.1:8080"
export PARTKEEPR_FRONTEND_DIR="/usr/share/partkeepr-ng/frontend"
export PARTKEEPR_STORAGE_DIR="/var/lib/partkeepr-ng/files"
export RUST_LOG="info,partkeepr_api=info,tower_http=info"
.RE
.fi
.PP
.B Production install with bulk data on a separate filesystem
(e.g. ZFS):
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Override storage paths to /srv/partkeepr-ng/ (operator must
# mkdir + chown the target tree before service start).
export PARTKEEPR_STORAGE_DIR="/srv/partkeepr-ng/files"
export PARTKEEPR_JLCPARTS_DB_PATH="/srv/partkeepr-ng/jlcparts.sqlite3"
.RE
.fi
.PP
.B All optional features enabled:
.PP
.nf
.RS
export PARTKEEPR_CLAMD="tcp://127.0.0.1:3310"
export PARTKEEPR_MOUSER_SEARCH_KEY="..."
export PARTKEEPR_MOUSER_ORDER_KEY="..."
export PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CLIENT_ID="..."
export PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET="..."
export PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CUSTOMER_ID="..."
export PARTKEEPR_TRUSTEDPARTS_API_KEY="..."
export PARTKEEPR_PTOUCH_BIN="/usr/bin/ptouch-print"
.RE
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
The configuration file documented here. Live, CONFIG_PROTECT'd.
.TP
.I /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/api.env.example
Dotenv-format reference of every supported variable. NOT a drop-in
for the conf.d file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR partkeepr-ng (8),
.BR openrc-run (8),
.BR mariadb (1),
.BR clamd (8),
.BR ptouch-print (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Don Bishop <dbishop@spectraq.com>.
