.\" partkeepr-ng(8) - PartKeepr-NG REST API daemon
.\" Copyright 2026 Capt Frito <capt.frito@gmail.com>
.\" Distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3
.TH PARTKEEPR-NG 8 "2026-05-19" "partkeepr-ng" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
partkeepr-ng \- PartKeepr-NG electronic-parts inventory backend
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bin/partkeepr-api
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B partkeepr-ng
is a Rust+Webix rewrite of the upstream
.UR https://github.com/partkeepr/PartKeepr
PartKeepr 1.4.0
.UE
electronic-parts inventory application. The backend reads its
configuration from environment variables (typically set via
.BR partkeepr-ng.conf (5)),
serves a Webix-based frontend over HTTP from
.IR PARTKEEPR_FRONTEND_DIR ,
and exposes a REST API under
.I /api/*
backed by a MariaDB schema compatible with the upstream PartKeepr
data model plus six additive migrations.
.PP
The daemon is normally managed by OpenRC as service
.B partkeepr-ng
and runs as the system user
.IR partkeepr .
The binary
.B /usr/bin/partkeepr-api
keeps the Rust crate name; the service / config / log paths all use
the project name
.IR partkeepr-ng .
.SH OPERATIONS
.TP
.B rc-service partkeepr-ng start
Bring up the daemon. Reads
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
for environment variables, connects to the database, runs startup
invariants (creates the
.B (NOWHERE)
default storage location if missing), then binds
.IR BIND_ADDR .
.TP
.B rc-service partkeepr-ng stop
Graceful shutdown. In-flight requests complete; new connections are
refused.
.TP
.B rc-service partkeepr-ng status
Report process state. A daemon that crashed during startup will be
reported as
.IR crashed ;
inspect
.I /var/log/partkeepr-ng/api.log
for the cause.
.TP
.BR rc-update " " add " " partkeepr-ng " " default
Enable the service at the default runlevel so it starts at boot.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The daemon reads configuration entirely from environment variables.
The full reference is in
.BR partkeepr-ng.conf (5);
a brief operational summary follows.
.PP
.B Required
.RS
.TP
.I DATABASE_URL
MariaDB connection string. Example:
.IR mysql://partkeepr:PASSWORD@localhost/partkeepr .
The daemon refuses to start if absent or unreachable.
.TP
.I PARTKEEPR_SESSION_SECRET
HMAC signer key for session cookies. At least 16 characters; generate
with
.IR "openssl rand -base64 48" .
Rotating it invalidates every active session.
.RE
.PP
.B Production deployments behind https
.RS
.TP
.I PARTKEEPR_SECURE_COOKIES
Set to
.B true
when the daemon sits behind an https reverse proxy. Without it, the
browser drops the session cookie and login silently fails. Default:
unset (off, for local-http dev).
.RE
.PP
.B Storage paths
.RS
.TP
.I PARTKEEPR_STORAGE_DIR
Attachment storage root. Daemon-writable. Default:
.IR /var/lib/partkeepr-ng/files .
.TP
.I PARTKEEPR_FRONTEND_DIR
Static frontend tree. Default for packaged install:
.IR /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/frontend .
.TP
.I PARTKEEPR_JLCPARTS_DB_PATH
Optional. Path to a local jlcparts SQLite mirror (~27 GB) for the
LCSC / JLCPCB cross-reference feature. When unset or the file is
absent, the cross-ref button is hidden.
.RE
.PP
.B Optional: ClamAV
.RS
.TP
.I PARTKEEPR_CLAMD
clamd TCP socket
.RI ( "tcp://127.0.0.1:3310" ).
When set, uploaded attachments are scanned in-flight. When unset,
the daemon logs a WARN at startup and uploads are not scanned.
.RE
.PP
.B Optional: distributor APIs and label printer
.RS
Without each of these keys, the corresponding feature is hidden in
the UI. See
.BR partkeepr-ng.conf (5)
for the full list:
.IR PARTKEEPR_MOUSER_SEARCH_KEY ,
.IR PARTKEEPR_MOUSER_ORDER_KEY ,
.IR PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CLIENT_ID ,
.IR PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET ,
.IR PARTKEEPR_DIGIKEY_CUSTOMER_ID ,
.IR PARTKEEPR_TRUSTEDPARTS_API_KEY ,
.IR PARTKEEPR_PTOUCH_BIN .
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
OpenRC env-var configuration. Sourced by the initscript at start.
CONFIG_PROTECT'd; preserves edits across upgrades.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/partkeepr-ng
OpenRC service. Depends on
.B net
and
.B mysql
(MariaDB's OpenRC service name on Gentoo). Optionally uses
.B clamd .
.TP
.I /etc/logrotate.d/partkeepr-ng
Weekly rotation; 8 archives; copytruncate (the OpenRC initscript owns
the log fd, so a signal would lose lines).
.TP
.I /etc/cron.d/partkeepr-ng
Periodic tasks. The jlcparts weekly sync is commented out by default;
uncomment to enable. The cron wrapper sources
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
so
.I PARTKEEPR_JLCPARTS_DB_PATH
controls the path in one place.
.TP
.I /usr/bin/partkeepr-api
The daemon binary. Run directly only for foreground debugging:
.IR ". /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng && /usr/bin/partkeepr-api" .
.TP
.I /usr/bin/reset-password
CLI to reset a user's password. Reads
.I DATABASE_URL
from the environment. Usage:
.IR "reset-password USERNAME NEW_PASSWORD" .
.TP
.I /usr/libexec/partkeepr-ng/migrate-from-upstream.sh
Apply the six numbered migrations on top of an existing PartKeepr 1.4.0
schema. Idempotent. Usage:
.IR "migrate-from-upstream.sh -u USER -d DATABASE" .
.TP
.I /usr/libexec/partkeepr-ng/jlcparts-sync.sh
Refresh the local jlcparts SQLite mirror (downloads ~2 GB of zip
shards from yaqwsx.github.io, extracts to ~27 GB).
.TP
.I /usr/libexec/partkeepr-ng/jlcparts-sync-cron.sh
Wrapper that sources
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
and invokes the sync script with locking. Called from the cron line.
.TP
.I /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/api.env.example
.IR backend/.env -format
reference showing every supported env var with prose comments. NOT a
drop-in for
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
(different syntax: dotenv vs shell-export).
.TP
.I /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/migrations/
SQL migration files (0001 through 0006). Re-applied by
.IR migrate-from-upstream.sh .
.TP
.I /usr/share/partkeepr-ng/frontend/
Webix static assets.
.TP
.I /var/lib/partkeepr-ng/files/
Default attachment storage. Owned
.IR partkeepr:partkeepr ,
mode 0750. Override with
.I PARTKEEPR_STORAGE_DIR
for large installs (e.g. ZFS dataset).
.TP
.I /var/log/partkeepr-ng/api.log
Combined stdout/stderr from the daemon. OpenRC's initscript captures
both streams; the daemon does not open the log itself.
.SH FIRST-TIME SETUP
.IP 1.
Edit
.I /etc/conf.d/partkeepr-ng
to set
.IR DATABASE_URL ,
generate
.IR PARTKEEPR_SESSION_SECRET ,
and review the data-directory paths. See
.BR partkeepr-ng.conf (5).
.IP 2.
Create the MariaDB database and user:
.PP
.RS
.nf
CREATE DATABASE partkeepr CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
CREATE USER 'partkeepr'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '...';
GRANT ALL ON partkeepr.* TO 'partkeepr'@'localhost';
.fi
.RE
.IP 3.
Migration from an existing PartKeepr 1.4.0 install: restore the legacy
mysqldump into the new DB, then run
.IR "/usr/libexec/partkeepr-ng/migrate-from-upstream.sh -u USER -d DATABASE" .
Rsync the legacy
.I data/files/
tree into
.IR $PARTKEEPR_STORAGE_DIR ,
preserving subdirectory structure
.RI ( PartAttachment/ ,
.IR FootprintAttachment/ ,
.IR images/iclogo/ ,
etc.).
.IP 4.
.IR "rc-update add partkeepr-ng default" " and " "rc-service partkeepr-ng start" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR partkeepr-ng.conf (5),
.BR mariadb (1),
.BR clamd (8),
.BR apache2 (8),
.BR certbot (1),
.BR cron (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Capt Frito <capt.frito@gmail.com>.
.SH BUGS
Report at
.UR https://github.com/CaptFrito/partkeepr-ng/issues
the project issue tracker.
.UE
